# Custom GLSL syntax
HyperBeetle uses a modified version of glsl. This is to allow shaders to be reasoned about much easier.

## Motivation
* Reduce the requirement to have separate shaders for each shader stage.
* Allow us to reuse code and use features such as `#include`.

## Features
### Function annotations
Functions may use C++ style annotations. `[[vert]]` and `[[frag]]`. Annotation a function with one of these will only include it in that shader type.

```glsl
[[vert]] void main(void) {}
[[frag]] void main(void) {}
```

### in / out / varying modifications
Varying was removed when other shader types such as geometry shaders were introduced. HyperBeetle only supports vertex and fragment shaders.

`in` and `out` type qualifiers are conditionally removed based on shader stages. This changes their semantic meaning.

* `in` now **ALWAYS** refers to a vertex shader input.
* `out` now **ALWAYS** refers to a fragment shader output.

Varying is used to transfer values between the two shaders. These will be changed to the correct type qualifier at runtime.

```glsl
in vec3 inPosition = 0; // inout assignment
in vec2 inTexCoord = 1; // inout assignment

varying vec2 vTexCoord;

out vec4 outColor = 0; // inout assignment

uniform sampler2D uAlbedo;

[[vert]] void main(void) {
    gl_Position = vec4(inPosition, 1.0);
    vTexCoord = inTexCoord;
}
[[frag]] void main(void) {
    outColor = texture(uAlbedo, vTexCoord);
}
```

### in / out assignment
Layout qualifiers are not supported. Instead we assign an int to the input and output types. This will generate the associated layout qualifers, or use a fallback.

### Extra preprocessor defined
Since the shader stages are combined. `HB_VERT` is defined if the source is being used as vertex shader code. and `HB_FRAG` is defined if the source is being used as fragment shader code. `HB_GENERATED` will be defined if the code was generated by the engine preprocessor.

### Removed version directive
The version may not be specified. The engine will do this for you.

### Include support
You may include other code by using `#include <name>`.
This does **NOT** refer to a file name. This refers to the name assigned to the a source code block in the engine.

[ARB_shading_language_include](https://registry.khronos.org/OpenGL/extensions/ARB/ARB_shading_language_include.txt) is not used to implment this feature.